[Music]
hey everybody
welcome to another episode of impact
theory q a today i'm going to be
covering the topic of commanding
respect this is going to be an
interesting one i take your guys's
questions and i give you feedback here
in real time so without further ado
let's learn how to command some respect
question number one
when dealing with older family members
who raised you
how do you go about commanding respect
when they have been your
parental figure but still don't take you
seriously no matter the effort you put
into your goals
no matter how much you have achieved no
matter how many times you've proven
yourself competent
and capable they still see you as the
kid that cannot possibly understand the
grown-up world
and treat you as an incompetent child no
matter your accomplishments
how can you personally move past that
and break the older person's identity of
you
is it possible and how all right i
love this question because it gets to
the heart of commanding
respect i actually think the idea of
commanding respect
is probably the wrong way to think about
it you're really going to be
earning respect you're going to be
getting so good at something that you
can't be denied and this
is one of those things that i say
without judgment i'm not saying that
you're not
talented i'm not saying that you haven't
demonstrated competence but i
am saying that if you can be ignored
the only way out of that is to continue
to
get better get to the point show it so
many times
that it is just self-evident now i'm
going to set aside insecurities for a
second because it's entirely possible
that what you're dealing with is their
insecurity
but i never want to give up my power and
say oh this is just on them and if you
find yourself doing that
i will say hit the brakes right now
because first and foremost you always
want to look at what you could be doing
so there's two things you could be doing
upping your game no matter how good you
think you
are you're still being ignored and so if
we talk about getting so good
that they can't ignore you then we know
that we haven't achieved that yet
and then the second thing you can do is
move on and while i know that is
brutally difficult to hear if we're
dealing with insecurities
then that may be the only solution so
first i want to focus the most of our
attention on this idea that you really
can get so good that they that you can't
be ignored
and i think a great example of this is
gary vaynerchuk now if you guys don't
know his story it's
such a cool story of somebody who came
up working for their father
their dad i'm sure in many ways thought
of them the same way that you know he
was just the kid
and it got to the point where gary saw
an opportunity for him to do something
in a completely different part of the
business
where he could establish himself so now
it was
about an area that his father didn't
understand his father didn't have
expertise and gary could
show with results point blank that he
was able to do something that his father
wasn't he took their
liquor store business from something
like six million dollars in revenue to i
think almost 70 million dollars in
revenue i mean it was
extraordinary in a relatively short
period of time just a few years if i'm
not mistaken
so that's the kind of thing there's no
way no matter how insecure the other
person is no matter how
they may have their own um
problems emotionally soothing or staying
centered or getting their ego out of the
way whatever the things are that they're
dealing with
there's no way to look at those numbers
and not say all right clearly what he
was doing is working
and to me that is where you have to get
you've got to get to the point where it
it would just be absurd to anybody
looking at that situation
to think that you weren't killing it and
what i've always done in my own life is
say hey i might be out performing
somebody
but if i'm not absolutely positively
dunking on them
burying them with results leaving them
so far behind
10x 20x better than the next person
then i need to keep going i need to
focus on me building my skill set and
really burying people with results time
and time again
day in and day out weeks months years of
performance
now that begs the question am i back to
part two now
am i investing this insane amount
of energy which is what it is going to
require a level of energy that other
people think is
crazy obsession mental illness whatever
it is that they think about it
you need to make sure that you're
applying that level of energy
to the place where it makes sense to
apply that energy
now i don't know your parents i don't
know if this is a family business i
don't know all of the dynamics at work
and it's impossible for me to say with
certainty whether this is a you need to
do something or they need to do
something
but if you recognize that this is not
the area that you want to be putting
your energies into and you have the
confidence in your own abilities
then don't be afraid to strike out on
your own and i think that's very
important for everybody to have in their
back pocket is a
memory that in the end
if you really are as good as you think
then you should be able to go
and build something new using those same
skill set and if you're afraid to do
that
that may be a sign that you're not quite
as good
as you think and that's the best news
ever because it means that you're still
in control all right
question two how do i command respect
from people who are higher up the career
ladder than i am
who are patronizing refuse to
acknowledge my achievements
i don't take their negativity on board i
certainly don't need their validation
and i still sleep at night but i would
love to turn this around
previous attempts have made me appear
everything from pathetic to arrogant
but it's a challenge i want to win and
i'm intrigued as to how this would be
answered okay
this is my life this is the exact thing
that i went through
so in the beginning of my business
career first of all i knew nothing so
people were right to question me why i
was there what the value i was offering
and i remember in the beginning this was
back at a technology company
when i first started i was hired as a
copywriter with by the guys who would
later become my partners but at the time
i was just an employee
and people were asking who's the kid in
the server room i was the youngest
person in the company nobody took me
seriously
i was working in an office where
everybody had floor-to-ceiling windows
with a view of the pacific ocean it was
absolutely stunning except for me and i
was put in the server room
which is the sort of business equivalent
of harry potter living under the stairs
i didn't have any windows i remember
being so embarrassed
bringing my wife to the office because
there were no windows
i didn't even have like a proper desk i
just sat in a room
full of the servers that were running
the technology that we were building
and i thought okay nobody takes me
seriously i remember one guy we ended up
letting him go and he was
so pissed that i was in the room uh
during his termination and so
there was a lot of sort of pressure
against me
people thought that um rightly so by the
way in the beginning that i didn't know
what i was doing
and it took so much time and energy to
grow
and get to the point where i was adding
enough value that i couldn't be denied
and that took me
years but i put in that work i picked
the things that i wanted to get good at
i put an inhuman
amount of effort i'm talking working to
the point where my wife finally had to
pull me aside
and say you're now damaging the marriage
you are working so much
so i recognize that what this was was a
game of skill set
and if a normal person was going to be
convinced of my skills
um you know say at point c these guys
weren't going to be impressed by my
skills until point q
fine i'm aiming for point z and i'm
going to go that hard i'm not going to
ask permission
i'm going to really try to add value i'm
not going to see this as antagonistic
i'm not going to take anything on
i'm not going to see like you know [__]
them and i'm just trying to beat and
crush them
what i wanted to do was get so good that
i could deliver
so much results tangible results for the
company
that people would want me on their team
and that more and more people would
covet to have me help them
that i would reach out to people and try
to add value to them even if it wasn't
my job
and just see what are the things that i
can do to help and by adopting that
attitude knowing that as i was helping
people i was getting better i was
becoming more valuable i was taking
things on myself
i was trying to look beyond my job
description i was just trying to get
so freakishly good that
one i could go anywhere if i wanted to i
didn't have to stay in that company
two if i'm honest at that point what i
was trying to do was earn equity in the
company so for five years i didn't ask
for a raise
i just put my head down and all i wanted
to do was become a partner
and i was just learning and learning and
learning and learning and if somebody
made fun of me
dunked on me yelled at me whatever
i just [__] self-soothe that was the
big thing
was i realized one of my superpowers was
i could self-soothe
faster than anybody else i could focus
on skill acquisition and i tied my
identity
entirely my entire ego all of my pride
was around getting better and by
focusing relentlessly on skills
not worrying about other people in fact
trying to help them
take on way more than my job description
put time
in nights weekends to learn a skill set
that i knew would be valuable to the
company
and i wasn't even asking for anything in
exchange i just wanted to prove
that i could get so good that they were
better off
offering me a piece of the company than
losing me to somebody else
and that like that's that thing it's
become so
frowned on in this culture to
work more than you're being compensated
for and i'm telling you right now
if you really want an extraordinary life
trying to optimize for your dollars in
the short term is a losing proposition
you want to over deliver consistently
at a freakish level and then
when you've done that then you can make
real demands demands that will change
your net worth forever
that's commanding respect
all right question three
i have practiced many times my body
language and the things i want to say as
well as the manner
i should have however when the moment
comes and i'm confronted by the person i
need to have the conversation with my
facade
kind of fades and i slip back into my
normal self and eventually i completely
lose the respect instead of getting it
are there any tricks or tips for keeping
it together specifically when the
anticipated moment of demanding respect
by a specific person who did you wrong
in the past arrives oh my god okay
this is fire first of all thank you for
being vulnerable and sharing that i
think that's incredibly powerful
now in your question you're revealing
the problem
that is haunting you so
respect comes from competence
whether it's your own self respecting
yourself
doing something you think is worthy
getting good at something that is
valuable
that's how you get somebody else's
respect you
don't get respect by saying you should
treat me this
way and respect cannot be given
it must be earned and i remember hearing
that at the beginning of my career and
thinking
[__] man like i can't just go to
somebody and say hey don't be a dick
like you need to treat me better and
that got me nowhere it makes you look
weak
like you said i mean you literally put
in the question where uh
my facade kind of fades and i slip back
into my normal self and eventually i
completely lose the respect instead of
getting it
okay this is a game of confidence
to be confident you must actually be
good at something i'm sure you've heard
the phrase that confidence comes from
competence okay
the same with respect if you want to get
that respect you actually have to get
good at something if you want to get
that respect you actually have to
respect yourself
you want oh god there's a great story so
i interviewed um
matthew mcconaughey watch the episode
first of all it's fire that dude's
amazing
but he in his book green lights he talks
about
how he came to hollywood and first he
was discovered
in texas now why was he discovered in
texas
because he had swagger he had that it
factor he didn't give a [__]
he didn't want people's approval he
wasn't asking for anything he wasn't
coming to the world with his hand out
this is so critical this was a turning
point in my life
don't come to the world with your hand
out don't act like the world owes you
anything
the people that are disrespecting you
don't owe you [__] and you shouldn't
want anything from them you shouldn't be
thinking about them you should be
thinking about becoming a beast
that cannot be stopped because you have
a set of skills
that lets you do something other people
can't do
my favorite one of my favorite quotes
all time certainly my favorite kobe
bryant quote
booze don't block dunks
if you get so good at something that
people can't stop you
they can't stop you think about being on
a basketball court the other team
they are paying their players millions
of dollars
to stop somebody from putting a ball
into the hoop
but you can actually get so good that
they cannot
stop you from doing it no matter how
hard they try
life is like that
you actually okay remember skills have
utility
so you can actually get so good at
something
your skill set is so superior to other
people your competitors
the other people in your work
environment whoever that
even though they want to stop you they
can't
because you've just gotten that much
better than they are
now back to matthew mcconaughey goes to
hollywood
they picked him out of obscurity because
he had swagger he goes there and all of
a sudden he loses that swagger
and before his
agent i guess would let him go to his
first audition
he said no no i can i can see that
you've got your hand out now that you
want something from this town
so we sent him on like a two-month
motorcycle journey across
europe or some crazy [__] like that and
he said
when you're ready and you no longer want
anything from this town and you can just
walk in
be you totally unapologetically then
we'll start sending you out on auditions
he did it he comes back he's got a
swagger he sends him in and obviously
the rest is history
man that that [__] is hard and i know
that people want an easier path forward
but the reality is
you have to get so good you can dunk on
even the people trying to stop you
that's just the truth
and when you do that and you're no
longer wanting other people's respect
you don't care about that all you're
doing is investing in skill set
then it will pay off all sudden people
will respect you and by the way
be kind to people extend that respect to
those
that have earned it of course but don't
be cold or cruel even when people are
being that way to you
i just i can't tell you how much that
will pay off in the end all right
that's the key get that swagger this
video was brought to you by our very own
impact theory university for more
information be sure to check out the
description below
question four hello i would like to know
what kind of things one should do in
order to command respect
how should one handle situations to
receive people's respect what body
language commands respect
can respect and kindness go together if
so how to find a good balance
i have noticed that when i'm too nice i
don't
receive respect however when a mean side
comes out people show respect
oh my god i need to shout out patty
patty you pick fire questions these are
amazing
all right i want to zoom in on a part of
this question
so it is absolute
[__] that being nice causes people
not to respect you
and that being mean gets you respect
what
being mean will do is get you a change
in behavior and
you can display dominance by being
aggressive or by being mean and i'm not
saying there's not a time to
um display dominance there
is that's a whole we'll do a whole
episode on dominance patty
but kindness is how you build teams
connection wanting other people to win
celebrating other people lifting them up
i can think of few ways to get people's
it's not respect i can think of few ways
to get people to want you on their team
that are more effective
than helping celebrating cheering for
them
being kind this sounds stupid but
i have yet to find a better way to say
this filling your heart with love
like you go into a situation and you
just want the people around you to win
now that doesn't mean
that you don't show up every day like
the hardest core [__] there is
playing to win being ultra intense
setting a standard and expecting people
that want to
draft on you to play at that same level
but you should be able to have
maybe even more kindness for the person
that's struggling to do
that the person that is maybe paralyzed
or overwhelmed
that even as you're going that hard core
that people can see that you actually
care about humans that it isn't
just who's got something that they can
do for me who's going to be able to lift
me up and help my project
but you're looking for ways to help
other people you're going out of your
way to be kind to people
that stuff is worth its weight in gold
but you're never going to get people's
respect
until you're actually good so now
imagine
being the best on the team and being
kind
to the worst player that's probably not
the right way to think about i'm going
to tease two ideas out
i think you do need to hold the worst
player accountable
but john wooden one of the greatest
basketball coaches of all time
said that he would judge people when he
was scouting
a high school player that there were
times where he would intentionally have
like
the janitor or the water boy or
something spill water around a player he
was recruiting
because he wanted to see how they would
react and if they were
a jerk to that person he wouldn't bring
them on the team
because he knew it's not just about
finding the best players it's about
finding people that can work together
finding ways to create harmony let's
talk about michael jordan
phil jackson said that until he helped
michael become a leader
they didn't win championships because
michael was so antagonistic and look
michael was hard on people his whole
career don't get me wrong
but he said he had to help michael
understand that he had to play as a team
that this couldn't be just about jordan
and now if you look
at the things that jordan talks about he
always credits the team the team the
team
i was a part of a winning team and he'll
rattle off the players by name
and if you read 11 rings by phil jackson
he talks about that transition
that jordan went through and that to me
is extraordinarily
telling of greatness that
you get yourself good extraordinary to
the point where people can rely on you
you're
really pursuing greatness you're pushing
other people
to achieve greatness but you're not
doing it at the expense of kindness
and so when i'm being aggressive and
there is no question i think my team
will be the first to tell you that i can
be very aggressive
my aggression always comes out in two
forms one what's our goal and are we
actually doing the things we need to do
to achieve it
and then two
we have a culture and the culture at
impact theory
is designed to help us achieve our goals
you can't work at impact theory unless
you buy into the culture
and i would expect people to hold me
accountable to that culture as quickly
as i hold them accountable
but let me tell you i show up every day
leading
because i'm the right person to lead not
because i'm the ceo
and because i approach it like that
because i'm trying to outwork
everybody because i'm trying to have in
my area
a deeper skill set than anybody
and then i'm showing kindness generosity
of spirit it just
it creates camaraderie and it allows you
to create momentum momentum is
definitely a whole another
episode unto itself but that's the thing
you want to bring together i always tell
people i'm looking for three things
grand ambition the drive to see that
ambition through
and compassion normally you see
drive and ambition paired up with
competitiveness
but i actually want people that can
elevate other people and i think that's
a huge part of this
all right question five
how do you command respect from people
who have either seen you in low places
and do not respect you or people who
have been free with their disrespect for
you in the past
how can you command respect from them in
your current reality
all right i want to talk about being low
i think that's a really interesting
part of this so one i can't
uh i can't rule out that you may be in a
toxic environment so let's just say if
you're in a toxic environment that's a
real thing
you want to get out of that toxic
environment you want to move on to
something else like
that just trying to change a whole
organization if they are toxic is not
interesting to me
in the slightest now toxicity comes from
insecurity so if that helps it actually
does help me
to know that when people are
mean-spirited when they like to see
other people fail it's all coming from
their own insecurities
i find tremendous emotional relief in
that
uh now i want to talk about being low
in a non-toxic environment
while i don't think anybody races to
have others
witness them at their worst
we've all been there we are all deeply
flawed
emotional creatures and
showing vulnerability should
never be frowned on for you forget how
people are reacting
right so there's wallowing
and that isn't interesting shouldn't be
interesting to you and yourself or in
others
there is
wanting sympathy instead of empathy so
sympathy is feel bad for me
you should never want that empathy is
understand where i'm
at being seen is rad
and my wife and i have an agreement i
don't want sympathy from her no matter
how hard my life gets
empathy desperately and the way that
we've always explained it to each other
is if i'm ever knocked to my knees
i don't want you to get on your knees
with me and cry
i want you to extend a hand
tell me how much you love me pick me
back up
brush me off and remind me of who i can
become
that's rad
so i'm not worried if she sees me low
i'm not worried if my team
sees me fail um i think all of us if
you're
really going for something extraordinary
i think all of us are going to
fail at least as much as we succeed
maybe more
and so fearing the low moments is not
the right way to think about it
recontextualize that failure as a
learning opportunity
earn people's respect not command it
earn people's respect
by getting back up on your feet
not asking people to feel bad for you
focusing on the learning opportunity
show that you have a growth mindset
get your ego out of the way
focus entirely on getting better and
if you rebound quickly with energy
and enthusiasm even if some people take
the opportunity to
kick you while you're down in the long
run
people will gravitate towards you
because they see that you're
real you're not posing they see that you
bounce back
that you don't whine wallow complain
you get up you're focused on improvement
and moving forward
and look the reality is getting great
requires you to fail over and over and
over there's an amazing quote by winston
churchill and he says
success is the ability to go from
failure
to failure to failure without a loss of
enthusiasm
and you just can't worry about what
other people are thinking
when you're down you have to go cool
this is a learning experience i'm going
to get back
up and your response to that shouldn't
be orchestrated to command respect earn
respect
to even think about people it should be
you have a goal
and you know to build your skill set to
the point
where you're so good that you can't be
denied
that all the booze in the world can't
block your dunk you have to fail
because it really it really is it isn't
a saying failure
is the most information rich data stream
you will ever encounter in the failure
if you get your ego out of the way and
you're not crying about it and you're
not
you know worried about what other people
are gonna think you're just thinking
okay cool
i failed and if i can understand why
then i can get better now you do that
day in and day
out all of a sudden you're going to earn
respect as as a consequence
of your just consistent improvement
and if i were going to sum up everything
that we've talked about today it's that
it's not focusing on earning people's
respect
or worrying about what they think it's
about
the physics of how the world works and
the physics of how the world works
pretty straightforward
you have a goal you have an idea of how
to
reach that goal right there's an
impediment between where you are and
where you want to be
you've got a theory about how to
overcome that impediment you try it
many of the things you try will fail or
they'll be insufficient you'll
assess why it was insufficient and
you'll begin again more intelligently as
henry ford said failure is just the
ability to begin again more
intelligently
and you do that over and over and over
and over and over and it's what i call
the physics of progress
it's just you can't boil it down any
more simple than that
all right so don't be afraid of your low
moments if you're in a toxic environment
get out
focus every day on getting better and
the respect will come as a result of
that
all right last question
what suggestions do you have to navigate
through cultural expectations
or negative perceptions about commanding
respect for example
it's not as easy in some cultures to
maneuver
the commanding of respect from parents
family members etc without it being
perceived
as disrespectful which is much more
negative than in the american culture
hopefully that makes sense thank you
okay so yes that absolutely makes sense
and it is a very real fact of the world
that there's a reason that there are
some cultures are more
entrepreneurial minded than other
cultures and this is part of it right
this sort of know your place or the tall
poppy
um syndrome as they call it down in
australia that you know the
it's the tall blade of grass or the tall
puppy that gets cut down first
okay there's many cultures that have
that concept and cultures that are more
communally minded um tend to have
that in the extreme right so that people
don't want to see you
try to rise above your station they
um do something as if you can be better
than other people
so i just want to acknowledge that is
very real and so now the question
becomes
what are you going to do about it so the
first thing that i do is i have to
divorce myself from what other people
think
and once you divorce yourself from what
other people think you realize that they
don't have
nearly as much power over you as you
thought they did and it's only when
you're trying to fit in their system
when you're
like for instance if you need to live in
their house if you are relying on them
for money
um if you if they're your only emotional
support okay
those are ways that you get trapped so
my parents over my journey and my
parents were amazing
they have pushed me to uh exceed
and excel and all of that but there's no
question
that as i was growing and
living a life that they had never
imagined that they couldn't imagine for
themselves that
they vacillated between being worried
for me thinking i was out of my mind
and constantly telling me that i was
pursuing the wrong thing
not out of malice out of love which is
oftentimes where this comes from and i
just finally had to flip a switch in my
mind and say
i'm trying to live a life that is
radically different
from the life that they have lived and
so what makes me think
that the value system through which
they're trying to view me
is going to leave me lead me to where i
want to go
and so if you're chafing under the
constraints
of a value system that doesn't lead
where you want to go
as difficult as it is without stopping
loving them you don't have to cut them
out of your life
but you have to say here's what i'm
doing
i'm doing it whether you want me to or
not i still love you but i'm doing it
whether you want me to or not
and it's okay if you're scared it's okay
if you don't like it um and then give
them the chance to
get on board over time and if they're
heckling you
too hard you may need to create that
distance you are going to have to build
some boundaries
and that's just sort of the way it goes
if you guys know nicole lapera
she would be a great person to research
in terms of somebody
that has had to deal with family
boundaries building those boundaries so
that she could build the life that she
wanted
uh very powerful advice around that and
ultimately it's that it's
you know recognizing what value system
you're going to need to have success in
the way that you want
letting them know that you love them
that you hope that they can
give you the space to go on your journey
and that if they can't you're going to
go on it anyway
and some of that means that you have to
make yourself financially and
emotionally independent
and i think all of us should strive for
that anyway
so you know you should be
in a warm and loving environment because
that's where you want to be
not because you need something
so yes i will leave it at that
guys these were amazing questions thank
you so much for submitting them
hopefully you see that this isn't about
commanding respect
it's not even about setting out to earn
respect it's about getting so good that
you can't be denied for
your own reasons because that's what
your goals demand
and as a consequence of developing that
competence
developing that confidence being able to
show kindness even to people that aren't
showing kindness to you
and performing at a ridiculously high
level
day after day getting better year after
year
that the respect will be just an echo of
that
if you do that i promise you even if the
people that you're around currently
still are hating on you you will be able
to
manifest things in the world through
your skill set that other people just
can't
and that will take you to be around
other people which you should always be
seeking out
the people that you want to be the
average of right the jim rohn quote
you're the average of the five people
you spend the most time with
leverage that improved skill set to get
around improved people if that's what it
takes if you're in a toxic environment
all right everybody that's respect i
hope that you're able to put that to use
in your life and until next time my
friends
be legendary take care thank you guys so
much for watching if you like this video
be sure to smash that like button and
let me know